I turned into like a devious frightened loner. It's a lot of shame.
Shame. My name is Trey and some people call me Ashtray. It's just
a weird nickname. I don't actually even smoke anymore.
But I am the manager of overdose prevention sites, one of the managers.
We hire drug users from within the community and give them a safe
way to make money, make sure that no one overdoses.
When I started out using drugs, it was fun and it was
a way to fit in. I was able to hold it together for
a while, like a day job. I was married, I had a wife
and a kid and the house and everything.
Eventually all that wasn't really important anymore. There were points
in that period of my life that I looked like a zombie.
I looked like I could be an extra on the show The Walking
Dead. When I would get really high on
crystal meth and heroin, my skin would get itchy and I'd hyperfocus on
like maybe a zit that I had on my face or
on my head or my body somewhere, and I just continually pick at
it until it was a big gaping wound. They wouldn't heal for days.
I would come to the hospital with a legitimate health concern and I would
get treated as someone who was seeking drugs.
I remember one time when I was inactive of drug use,
I had been homeless for a certain amount of years. It was freezing,
it was cold and I was wandering around aimlessly
for like days pretty much. And I needed a place to rest,
I didn't have anywhere to go and I figured that
the hospital would be open. So I wanted to come and warm up
for a bit. And I came to the emergency room at VGH and
sat there trying to stay out of the cold for a while.
And I was immediately picked out by a nurse
as a drug user as someone who was trying to
come in and stay warm and was told to beat it.
And it hurt and it gets to the point where you get beaten
down so much, it's like why even bother? Why even bother? I had a
legitimate hand infection and they told me I needed to rest and take
it easy and take the antibiotics. I pleaded with
the doctor and I just explained to him the facts that
the way that I supported myself was frequently breaking into cars
as a means to find something I could sell quickly for quick bucks. He
took pity on me and said that he would give me a prescription
for, I think it was hydromorph. I'm pretty sure it was hydromorph. He gave
me a dilly script based on my heroin use
so that I could take it easy and relax. I'll always remember that
doctor as someone who actually listened to me,
heard what I was saying, saw past the fact that I was a
drug user and had empathy towards me, towards my situation and actually
saw that even though I was living a shady life at the time,
that if I had the option I wouldn't want to do that.
I came back to the community that I
know and love so well, the Downtown Eastside, and I wanted to find
a reason to be there that wasn't using drugs. And there was a
peer run site called Ops and they hired me
as someone with lived experience. Places like Ops provide
employment opportunities and training for people like me who
get stigmatized and have criminal records. I know now that I work
in the Downtown Eastside helping other people who are in the same situation
that I was in in my life, I know all too well how
important it is to drop judgments and have low barrier care for someone
who is facing that situation in their life, and give them hugs and
look at them in the eyes and ask them what they need,
ask them how their day is going. That's so important and
stigma is a big barrier in that.